Did you know you start losing skin elasticity (aka the ability to stretch and bounce back into place) as early as your 20s? Thanks to Revela, you can now help restore your skin’s structure.
Kicking off their new skincare line is Fibroquin Essence, a revolutionary new formula featuring Fibroquin™, their proprietary, AI-discovered molecule that tackles one of the most challenging skin issues for aging skin : the loss of volume, tightness, and elasticity.
Fibroquin™ rejuvenates skin by supporting its collagen biopathway, enabling skin to remain lifted, toned, and supple without any irritation. In a clinical trial, 93% of participants showed a significant improvement in skin elasticity by week 8.
Get 15% off your first purchase here .
BUSINESS NEWS
Short seller firm targets world’s 4th-richest person
The Simpsons Mr. Burns
The Simpsons/20th Television Animation via Giphy
A US-based short seller has set its sights on a Goliath-sized target. The firm, Hindenburg Research, released a 100-page report on Tuesday alleging
that the Adani Group, led by the world’s fourth richest person—Gautam Adani—was “pulling the largest con in corporate history.”
According to Hindenburg, Adani Group (one of India’s largest business conglomerates that’s seen as “too big to fail,” given Indian taxpayers’ exposure to it) has run a “brazen stock manipulation and accounting fraud scheme” for decades, using shell entities to siphon off taxpayer money. Adani Group companies lost $12 billion in market value after the report’s release—something that, if you own a conglomerate, you don’t want to happen.
Adani himself dropped a whole spot on the world’s richest list, falling below Jeff Bezos and just out of the top three.
In response, Adani Group dismissed the allegations and accused Hindenburg of timing the report’s release in bad faith to undermine an upcoming stock sale.
What's at stake: This report makes Adani Group the largest target of Hindenburg Research, and it’s a test of the firm’s power. Hindenburg was relatively unknown until 2020, when its report on then-hot EV maker Nikola became a pillar in the government’s fraud case against the company’s founder.—MK
