NATION
Mass attacks of violence have a lot in common
The crime scene in Half Moon Bay, CA
Tayfun Coskun/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images
If it feels like recent US mass attacks have startlingly similar details, it’s because many of them do. A new study
from the Secret Service’s National Threat Assessment Center examined 173 public attacks occurring from 2016 to 2020 and found patterns that repeated from Uvalde, TX, to the back-to-back shootings in California this past weekend.
Some commonalities:
Who: Almost all attackers acted alone and were men. Though attackers ranged in age from 14 to 87, the average age skewed younger at 34.
What: Nearly 73% of attacks involved firearms, and most of those were fatal. The remaining attacks that didn’t involve firearms were mostly nonfatal.
Why: Nearly all attackers experienced a significant stressor, such as a loved one dying, in the five years prior to the attack, and 77% of them experienced one within a year. Half of the incidents were motivated by “perceived wrongs” in the workplace or at home.
The killing of seven people in Half Moon Bay, California, on Monday was described
by officials as an act of “workplace violence.”
Most attackers had similar red flags
The study says that nearly half of attackers had a history of misogyny and/or domestic violence—and that those behaviors “deserve increased attention” from law enforcement. Violent online posting and chatting can also signal an individual may commit an attack. The Uvalde, TX, shooter, for example, threatened
women online and shared graphically misogynistic content.
Nearly two-thirds of attackers said or did things so “objectively concerning” that the report says they “should have been met with an immediate response.” Many of these were even reported to law enforcement, employers, and others prior to the mass attack.
The report’s big takeaway? Recognizing shared patterns among past mass attacks early could help prevent future incidents.
Zoom out: Over 39 incidents of mass violence have already occurred in the US this year, and two incidents happened in California just this past week. Legislators are debating what laws they can pass
to slow or stop the momentum.—JW
WORLD
Tour de headlines M1 Abrams tanks being shipped David Hecker/Getty Images
Ukraine is getting new tanks. Both the US and Germany agreed yesterday to send tanks
to Ukraine as it fends off Russia’s invasion—something Ukraine has said it needs to win the war. The US will send 31 M1 Abrams tanks, while Germany will provide 14 Leopard 2 A6 models. Though Western allies have been arming Ukraine since the war began nearly a year ago, there was hesitation over whether sending tanks would be considered an escalation. And while President Biden stressed this move was “not an offensive threat to Russia,” Russia has stated that sending tanks will make the possibility of talks to end the war less likely.
Trump can shop on Facebook Marketplace again. Meta said yesterday former President Trump’s accounts on Instagram and Facebook will be reinstated
after the company suspended his accounts following the Jan. 6 attacks. Meta said Trump’s risk to public safety has “sufficiently receded” since then. Before being banned, Trump was the most followed person on Facebook. It’s not the only social network to welcome him back: Trump’s Twitter account was reinstated in November (though he has yet to post there, sticking to his own competitor, Truth Social…for now).
State abortion pill bans get challenged in court. Mifepristone manufacturer GenBioPro filed a federal lawsuit
yesterday seeking to have West Virginia’s ban on abortion pills deemed unconstitutional on the grounds that the FDA’s approval of the drug should trump state restrictions. More than half of all US abortions are medication abortions, according to the Guttmacher Institute, and questions concerning the legality of these abortions have proliferated since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. A separate suit also filed yesterday by a North Carolina doctor challenges that state’s ban, but abortion opponents have their own suit pending in Texas to try to overturn the FDA’s drug approval.
TOGETHER WITH REVELA
Meet your new skin savior
Revela
